Add "phase 2" dev docs for sharing saved objects (#128037)
elastic/kibana: docs/developer/advanced/sharing-saved-objects.asciidoc

> <<sharing-saved-objects-faq-share-capable-vs-shareable,_share-capable_ objects>> as a stepping stone for plugin developers to fully support

Reviewer: Title of the doc should be "Sharing saved objects".  Sentence case.

this feature.

Implementing a shareable saved object type is done in two phases:

- **Phase 1**: Convert an existing isolated object type into a share-capable one. Keep reading!

> - **Phase 2**: Switch an existing share-capable object type into a shareable one, _or_ create a new shareable object type. Jump to the

Reviewer: Does Phase 2 need to know about the Breaking changes?

Author: Good question -- no, these breaking changes only affect existing object types that were converted in the 8.0 release.

TIP: External plugins can also convert their objects, but <<sharing-saved-objects-faq-external-plugins,they don't have to do so before the
8.0 release>>.

[[sharing-saved-objects-phase-1]]

> === Phase 1 Developer Flowchart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Phase 1 developer flowchart
```

NOTE: Reminder, don't forget to add unit tests and integration tests!

[[sharing-saved-objects-phase-2]]

> === Phase 2 Developer Flowchart

Reviewer 2: You might already be planning for this, but do you think it would be worthwhile to add a note/warning indicating that all steps within `Phase 2` need to be done in the same release?

Author: Good point, I'll change the flowchart accordingly

This section covers switching a share-capable object type into a shareable one _or_ creating a new shareable saved object type. Refer to
this flowchart:

image::images/sharing-saved-objects-phase-2-dev-flowchart.png["Sharing Saved Objects phase 2 - developer flowchart"]

[[sharing-saved-objects-step-6]]
==== Step 6

> *Update your _server-side code_ to mark these objects as "shareable"*

When you register your object, you need to set the proper `namespaceType`. If you have an existing object type that is "share-capable", you
can simply change it:

image::images/sharing-saved-objects-step-6.png["Sharing Saved Objects registration (shareable)"]

[TIP]
====
You can also mark your object as
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/{branch}/docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectstypemanagementdefinition.md[importable and exportable]:

```json
management: { isImportableAndExportable: true },
```

If you do this, then your objects will be visible in the <<managing-saved-objects,Saved Objects Management page>>, where users can assign
them to multiple spaces.

> ====

Reviewer 2: I'm not sold on this tip yet. It gives me the impression that the only way to share objects is via SOM, and I don't think that's the message we want to send.

What if we re-worded `Step 8` from:
> *Update your _client-side code_ to add reusable components*

to something like:
> *Expose the ability to share saved objects to your users*

And then this slightly less specific title could encompass the decision that they have to make:
1) Rely solely on SOM for sharing (probably not our preference?)
2) Introduce a share SO experience within your app
3) A combination of 1 and 2.

----

I know this is a draft, so it's also possible that your planned changes to these docs will make this tip clearer to me as-is.

NOTE: Reminder, don't forget to add unit tests and integration tests!

[[sharing-saved-objects-phase-2]]
=== Phase 2 Developer Flowchart

This section covers switching a share-capable object type into a shareable one _or_ creating a new shareable saved object type. Refer to
this flowchart:

image::images/sharing-saved-objects-phase-2-dev-flowchart.png["Sharing Saved Objects phase 2 - developer flowchart"]

[[sharing-saved-objects-step-6]]
==== Step 6

> *Update your _server-side code_ to mark these objects as "shareable"*

When you register your object, you need to set the proper `namespaceType`. If you have an existing object type that is "share-capable", you
can simply change it:

image::images/sharing-saved-objects-step-6.png["Sharing Saved Objects registration (shareable)"]

[[sharing-saved-objects-step-7]]
==== Step 7

> *Update saved object delete API usage to handle multiple spaces*

If an object is shared to multiple spaces, it cannot be deleted without using the
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/{branch}/docs/development/core/server/kibana-plugin-core-server.savedobjectsdeleteoptions.md[`force`

> delete option]. Consumers should always be aware when a saved object exists in multiple spaces, and they should warn users in that case.

Reviewer 2: nit: this doc refers to consumers as "you" in most places

```suggestion
delete option]. You should always be aware when a saved object exists in multiple spaces, and you should warn users in that case.
```

  savedObjectTarget: {
    type: myObject.type,
    namespaces: myObject.namespaces,
    id: myObject.id,
    icon: 'beaker', <1>
    title: myObject.attributes.title, <2>
    noun: OBJECT_NOUN, <3>
  },
  onUpdate: () => { /* callback when the object is updated */ },
  onClose: () => setShowFlyout(false),
};

return (
  <>
    <LazySpaceList
      namespaces={spaceIds}
      displayLimit={8}
      behaviorContext="outside-space" <4>
      listOnClick={() => setShowFlyout(true)}
    />
    {showFlyout && <LazyShareToSpaceFlyout {...shareToSpaceFlyoutProps} />}
  </>
);
```
<1> The `icon` field is optional, it specifies an https://elastic.github.io/eui/#/display/icons[EUI icon] type that will be displayed in the
    flyout header.
<2> The `title` field is optional, it specifies a human-readable identifier for your object that will be displayed in the flyout header.
<3> The `noun` field is optional, it just changes "object" in the flyout to whatever you specify -- you may want the flyout to say
    "dashboard" or "index pattern" instead!
<4> The `behaviorContext` field is optional, it controls how the space list is displayed. When using an `"outside-space"` behavior context,

>     the space list is rendered outside of any particular space, so the active space is included in the list. On the other hand, when using a `"within-space"` behavior context, the space list is rendered within the active space, so the active space is excluded from the list.

Author: Sounds good, I'll plan to do that in the linked issue then

NOTE: Reminder, don't forget to add unit tests and integration tests!

[[sharing-saved-objects-phase-2]]

> === Phase 2 Developer Flowchart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Phase 2 developer flowchart
```

This section covers switching a share-capable object type into a shareable one _or_ creating a new shareable saved object type. Refer to
this flowchart:

image::images/sharing-saved-objects-phase-2-dev-flowchart.png["Sharing Saved Objects phase 2 - developer flowchart"]

[[sharing-saved-objects-step-6]]

> ==== Step 6

Reviewer: It's a little confusing to see this as step 6.  Because it's under a new phase, can numbering be restarted at 1?

Author: As discussed offline:

I initially used this ordering because the page is quite large and you might get lost on it, but at it's kind of nice to have all of the content on one page.

As you suggested, I tried reordering them from 1-5 and 6-8 to 1.1-1.5 and 2.1-2.3 in a0052a8e616346feac23eeff46ea814575772b57, take a look and see what you think!
Note, if we like this I'll need to change the text in the flowcharts, too.

Reviewer: Honestly, I prefer it the original with step 1-5 and 6-8.

https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/{branch}/src/plugins/data_view_management/public/components/index_pattern_table/spaces_list.tsx[combine
these into a single component] so that the space list can be clicked to show the flyout:
+
```tsx
const [showFlyout, setShowFlyout] = useState(false);
const LazySpaceList = useCallback(spacesApi.ui.components.getSpaceList, [spacesApi]);
const LazyShareToSpaceFlyout = useCallback(spacesApi.ui.components.getShareToSpaceFlyout, [spacesApi]);

const shareToSpaceFlyoutProps: ShareToSpaceFlyoutProps = {
  savedObjectTarget: {
    type: myObject.type,
    namespaces: myObject.namespaces,
    id: myObject.id,
    icon: 'beaker', <1>
    title: myObject.attributes.title, <2>
    noun: OBJECT_NOUN, <3>
  },
  onUpdate: () => { /* callback when the object is updated */ },
  onClose: () => setShowFlyout(false),
};

return (
  <>
    <LazySpaceList
      namespaces={spaceIds}
      displayLimit={8}
      behaviorContext="outside-space" <4>
      listOnClick={() => setShowFlyout(true)}
    />
    {showFlyout && <LazyShareToSpaceFlyout {...shareToSpaceFlyoutProps} />}
  </>
);
```

> <1> The `icon` field is optional, it specifies an https://elastic.github.io/eui/#/display/icons[EUI icon] type that will be displayed in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `icon` field is optional. It specifies an https://elastic.github.io/eui/#/display/icons[EUI icon] type that will be displayed in the
```

    flyout header.

> <2> The `title` field is optional, it specifies a human-readable identifier for your object that will be displayed in the flyout header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The `title` field is optional. It specifies a human-readable identifier for your object that will be displayed in the flyout header.
```

> <3> The `noun` field is optional, it just changes "object" in the flyout to whatever you specify -- you may want the flyout to say

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> The `noun` field is optional. It just changes "object" in the flyout to whatever you specify -- you may want the flyout to say
```

>     "dashboard" or "data view" instead!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "dashboard" or "data view" instead.
```

> <4> The `behaviorContext` field is optional, it controls how the space list is displayed. When using an `"outside-space"` behavior context,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> The `behaviorContext` field is optional. It controls how the space list is displayed. When using an `"outside-space"` behavior context,
```
